Okay, so far.
It's a little bit different.
So hopefully that was explained in
a way that makes sense that you
understand what's going on now
because we get down into it.
If I just, [LAUGH] I made a mistake I
should have opened with like an example of
Web Assembly and you'd be like, what?
And then by the time you got to here,
you'd be like, okay, now this makes sense.
That was a miss, maybe next time maybe V2.
I really like this program
called Web Assembly Studio, and
we'll actually we'll
open that in a second.
But it's a fast way if you wanna
write some web assembly right now or
real quick without building
up an entire tooling system.
Web Assembly studio, is super useful, it's
really cool, we don't upload VS code or
anything, it works in your browser.
It's actually,
it's built on Web Assembly funny enough.
And it's a really cool
open-source project.
We're gonna use it,
actually we'll use right now,
let's write a helloworld
function in Web Assembly.
Yeah, we finally get to code
that less talking more coding.
So, what we're gonna do is actually I
think I have the example right here.
Did I save?
I do, but I'll start off yet
let's pretend I don't have an example yet.
Let's go to Web Assembly Studio.
So remember we said earlier that
Web Assembly is a compile target for
other languages, hence we write in C,
we write in Rust,
we write in Assembly Script.
Or we can write directly, in Web Assembly
and we won't compile at all,
we just compile it to wasm.
So let's open a new Empty Wat Project.
Create.
And we're going to main.wat.
And we're just gonna delete out
this code that it puts in earlier.
So when we're declaring,
when we're writing Web Assembly module,
we start with module and
little space there.
We're gonna create a function
called helloworld.
So func.
And we prefix out with dollar
sign to let us know it's a name.
So helloworld.
And we're gonna declare some of
the parameters to this function.
So we're gonna say param.
And the parameters are just
inputs to the function.
And we're gonna call this num1, and
we declared as a 32 bit integer,
as we discussed a bit earlier.
And for
a function if it's not a void function,
as in void doesn't return anything, in
this case we want it to return something
because a void function isn't terribly
helpful for calling it from JavaScript
because it just wouldn't output anything
unless we're writing to memory.
So in this case,
we're gonna say the results of
the function is a 32 bit integer as well.
Okay, now you're with me.
I feel it, I feel it.
So in this case, we wanna call our
number and then we wanna return it.
So we're just whatever the input is,
we're just gonna spit that right back
out in this very simple example.
So I'm gonna say get local and
we're gonna say num1.
So get local,
what it does is it grabs the locals,
the locals are known as
the parameters that would pass in.
We can also say get globals, globals
are the same concept as in JavaScript.
They're things that are globally
declared with an object.
So different numbers and, well,
generally numbers, we can pull those in.
But in this case,
we're gonna say get local,
which is an opcode,
which we'll discuss in the next section.
The return on Web Assembly
modules is implied, so
this will actually just return
the number that we put in.
Next, we have a function, but
we need to actually tell JavaScript
that this function is available.
So we do that with the export command.
So we're gonna export a function
we can call it whatever but
I'm just gonna call it the same
name as we did before because well,
it makes it easy to reason about later.
So we're exporting something
called helloworld.
And now we're going to
declare that it's a function.
And the function is
actually the helloworld
function that we see, that we just wrote.
Okay, and then don't forget to save.
That's really important.
And let's build it and
see if I have any errors.
Hey, no errors cool.
Let's jump to the main.js.
We'll cover converting Web Assembly
fetching and all these things a bit later.
I don't want to get bogged down
into that because that's more
the browser implementation of
Web Assembly and not Web Assembly itself.
But in this case, because we declare our
exports, when we fetch the Web Assembly
module, it's going to have exports as
one of the properties on the objects.
And that property that
export is helloworld.
And we'll say I don't know, 42.
And then again,
don't forget to save it is the most common
mistake I always make is I forget to save.
And let's build and run.
Hey, not bad, not bad, everybody there
everybody get 42 or
whatever number you put in?
Yeah, congratulations.
You just wrote Web Assembly by hand.
I am so proud of you.
Wait.
[SOUND] You all have come so far.
I bet you didn't think you'd
be writing assembly today.
Actually, you did.
You probably like I'm taking
a class on Web Assembly,
we're gonna write web assembly.
You just did.
Remember, we wrote we use the wat file.
But that's not actually what's
running in the browser.
It's actually the wasm file,
which you can't edit directly.
So Web Assembly Studio will just tell you
to use the wat file if you try to edit it
and it even gives you a warning.
Because again,
the wasm file is just binary data,
it wouldn't make any sense to us.
It's actually not terribly readable.
It is readable but we're not that beginner
and so we can read, raw Web Assembly.
That was it.
That is in the nutshell
how to write web assembly.
Now, let's build on this a bit.
Now that we kind of all
have this fundamental base.
We understand types, we understand
like how to return functions,
things like that we understand for
some reason the s expressions.
Okay, so we wrote a really, really
basic example, I probably should add,
if you wanna put a comment in your
Web Assembly it's two semi colons back to
back and
that is a comment in Web Assembly.
Always useful to know how to
write comments in any language.